API-1362: Add article on best practices to use the Events API with an extension (#460)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/getting-started/events-api-best-practices/best-practices.md

It allows you to take the time you need later to process each of the events properly and to optimize the operation in doing so (like fetching the necessary data on the PIM for multiple products at once).

It's also easier for you to have more than one process, consuming those events, and be able to handle them even faster.

## Keep synchronizing your data with the PIM

An important point of the Events API is that you should not rely solely on it to keep your data up-to-date with the PIM.

### Events delivery

Akeneo PIM Events API has no retry mechanism, so you may not receive some events:

- If the connector is unreachable or returns an error to an event request, the PIM will not try to re-send it.

- The Events API comes with a limitation on the number of requests sent per hour (see the paragraph about the [limits of Events API requests](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).
  If this quota is reached, some events won't be sent until the quota is reset.

- In the same way, your connector might be limiting the number of incoming requests (maybe with a _429 Too Many Requests_ status code).

>   Unfortunately, the Events API doesn't handle this scenario and will keep trying to send you event API requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Unfortunately, the Events API doesn't handle this scenario yet and will keep trying to send you event API requests.
```

# Best practices to use the Events API with your connector

<!--
- Explication rapide de l'events api + lien vers la référence doc de l'events api + helpcenter
- Explication rapide d'un use-case d'une extension connecté à l'events api
  - aka, mon site ecommerce aimerait se sync avec le pim rapidement aprés des modifications sur un produit
  -->

This page presents best practices and recommendations you might need while implementing the Events API inside an API based connector.

> First, if you need help to setup a connector to use the Events API take a loot at the [Quick start my first webhook](/getting-started/quick-start-my-first-webhook/welcome.html) guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, if you need help setting up a connector to use the Events API, look at the [Quick start my first webhook](/getting-started/quick-start-my-first-webhook/welcome.html) guide.
```

## Configure your server

> TODO

Reviewer 2: ?

Reviewer: I will hide it for now, before merging, and we will complete it at the end of the week with PY

<!--
- recommandations devops (voir avec Pierre-yves)
  - DNS, Firewall, TLS certificate (+lib TLS)
  - TLS car la data doit être sécurisé entre le PIM et l'extension
  - https://api.akeneo.com/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#extension-side-limits
-->

## Handle API events asynchronously

### Connector scalability

> The Events API can send a lot of requests to your connector endpoint. The default value being 4000 requests per hour and each one may contain up to 10 events (see [limits and scalability](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Events API can send a lot of requests to your connector endpoint. The default value is 4000 requests per hour maximum and each one may contain up to 10 events (see [limits and scalability](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).
```

> The Events API can send a lot of requests to your connector endpoint. The default value being 4000 requests per hour and each one may contain up to 10 events (see [limits and scalability](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Events API can send a lot of requests to your connector endpoint. It can reach up to 4000 requests per hour, and each one may contain up to 10 events (see [limits and scalability](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).
```

> The Events API can send a lot of requests to your connector endpoint. The default value being 4000 request per hour and each request can contains to up to 10 events (see [limits and scalability](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Events API can send a lot of requests to your connector endpoint. The default value being 4000 requests per hour and each one may contain up to 10 events (see [limits and scalability](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).
```

> This means that your connector needs to be able to handle up to 40,000 events per hour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It means that your connector needs to be able to handle up to 40,000 events per hour.
```

> This means that your connector needs to be able to handle up-to 40,000 events per hour.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This means that your connector needs to be able to handle up to 40,000 events per hour.
```

> However, each of these events (like `product.updated`) may require additional calls to the PIM Rest API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, each of these events (like `product.updated`) may require additional calls to Akeneo PIM Rest API.
```

> But then, each of this event (like `product.updated`) is not necessarily useful on its own, as you might want to gather additional data from the PIM Rest API to be able to process it properly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, each of these events (like `product.updated`) may require additional calls to the PIM Rest API.
``` 
Just a suggestion if I understood your idea well. Don't hesitate to rephrase my rephrasing :)

Reviewer: Yes, it's way better

> For example, you will want to get the attributes and their types for the family of the product, or you will want to fetch more data for the reference entities and assets attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, get the product's family's attributes and types or fetch more data for the reference entities and assets attributes.
```

> For example, you will want to get the attributes and their types for the family of the product, or you will want to fetch more data for the reference entities and assets attributes.

Reviewer 4: Not sure of "will want". does it respect your idea to simply write "want" ?

Reviewer: I guess that it's more "may want" instead of "will want". Or just keep "want" alone yes, I don't know what is best, what do you think ?

Reviewer 4: I think less words is always a good choice ;)

Reviewer 3: I vote for "may want"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you may want to get the attributes and their types for the family of the product, or you may want to fetch more data for the reference entities and assets attributes.
```

> If you do each of this operation synchronously for the 40,000 events, your connector (and the Rest API of the PIM) won't be able to follow and support the load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do each of these operations synchronously for the 40,000 events, your connector (and the Akeneo PIM Rest API) won't be able to follow and support the load.
```

> If you do each of this operation synchronously for the 40,000 events, your connector (and the Rest API of the PIM) won't be able to follow and support the load.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you do each of this operation synchronously for the 40,000 events, your connector (and the Rest API of the PIM) won't be able to handle the load.
```

### Connector response time

At the same time, your connector needs to acknowledge quickly (under 500ms) that a request sent by the Events API has been handled successfully.

So it excludes, even more, processing the events synchronously upon receiving them.

### Recommendations

> We recommend you to process the API events asynchronously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend you process the API events asynchronously.
```

> What it means is that for each Events API request you receive, you should store the events somewhere (to be processed later) and reply immediately to the Events API with a success response.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It means that you should store the events somewhere (to be processed later) for each Events API request you receive and reply immediately to the Events API with a success response.
```

> What it means is that for each Events API request you receive, you should store the events somewhere (to be processed later) and reply immediately to the Events API with a success response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It means that you should store the events somewhere (to be processed later) for each Events API request you receive and reply immediately to the Events API with a successful response.
```

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion as Thomas but with successful instead of success

::: tips

> A typical solution for this would be to store the events in a database or in a [message queue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_queue).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A typical solution for this would be to store the events in a database or a [message queue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_queue).
```

> :::

Reviewer: Should we go further and include a schema like that ?

![Events API architecture](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1671213/107249957-0d5d6400-6a34-11eb-8a4c-6e5b9450cf8f.jpg)

> This allows you to take the time you need later to process each of the events properly and to optimize the operation in doing so (like fetching the necessary data on the PIM for multiple products at once).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It allows you to take the time you need later to process each of the events properly and to optimize the operation in doing so (like fetching the necessary data on the PIM for multiple products at once).
```

It's also easier for you to have more than one process, consuming those events, and be able to handle them even faster.

## Keep synchronizing your data with the PIM

An important point of the Events API is that you should not rely solely on it to keep your data up-to-date with the PIM.

### Events delivery

> The delivery of events is not always guaranteed, and the Events API doesn't offer any retry mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Akeneo PIM Events API has no retry mechanism, so you may not receive some events:
```

- If the connector is unreachable or returns an error to an event request, the PIM will not try to re-send it.

> - The Events API comes with a limitation on the number of requests sent per hour (see [limit of event API requests](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The Events API comes with a limitation on the number of requests sent per hour (see the paragraph about the  [limits of Events API requests](/events-documentation/limits-and-scalability.html#limit-of-event-api-requests-per-hour)).
```

  If this quota is reached, some events won't be sent until the quota is reset.

- In the same way, your connector might be limiting the number of incoming requests (maybe with a _429 Too Many Requests_ status code).
  Unfortunately, the Events API doesn't handle this scenario and will keep trying to send you event API requests.

> With all of this in mind, it's easy to see that it's crucial for your connector to still be able to synchronize periodically its data with the PIM (via the Rest API).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With all of this in mind, it's easy to see that your connector must still be able to synchronize its data periodically with the PIM (via the Rest API).
```

## Ignore events that are not relevant

### Events ordering

The Events API doesn't guarantee the delivery of the events in order.

> As an example, you may receive two update events on the same product but not in a chronological order (the oldest one arriving after the newest). In this case you should simply ignore the outdated event based on the "updated" date of the product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an example, you may receive two update events on the same product but not in chronological order (the oldest one arriving after the newest). In this case, you should simply ignore the outdated event based on the `updated` date of the product.
```

## Return correct HTTP response codes

The Events API is logging the status of the response sent by your connector. It can help debug any issue you would encounter with the Events API.

> This means, `200 OK` when the request was received successfully but also meaningful error code when it's not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It means that we log a `200 OK` response when we receive a successful request and an error code when it's not. So you may want to answer Events API requests with proper error codes.
```
